README.md, before:

# Hello, Tinker 👋

Welcome to a tiny, beginner-friendly playground for the [Tinker](https://github.com/thinkingmachines/tinker) API. This repo is meant for workshops, demos, and "Hello World" experiments—clone it whenever you need a clean starting point.

## What's inside?

- `notebooks/00_check_env.ipynb` — sanity checks for your Python/Jupyter environment and SDK versions.
- `notebooks/01_tinker_hello_LoRA_world.ipynb` — a minimal LoRA fine-tuning walkthrough that keeps all of the original demo logic intact.
- `test_env.py` — quick CLI script to confirm your `.env` file is wired up.

> **Community note:** this is an independent community project and is **not** affiliated with or endorsed by Thinking Machines Lab.

## Quickstart

1. **Clone the template**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<your-org>/Tinker-hello-world-notebooks.git
   cd Tinker-hello-world-notebooks
   ```
2. **Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended)**
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\\Scripts\\activate
   ```
3. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
4. **Configure environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Open .env and paste your Tinker API key
   ```
5. **Verify your setup**
   ```bash
   python test_env.py
   ```
   You should see `TINKER_API_KEY present: True` before launching any notebooks.

## Running the notebooks

1. Start Jupyter (Lab or Notebook):
   ```bash
   jupyter lab  # or: jupyter notebook
   ```
2. Open `notebooks/00_check_env.ipynb` and run all cells from top to bottom. This confirms your interpreter, file paths, and SDK versions.
3. Move on to `notebooks/01_tinker_hello_LoRA_world.ipynb`. The first markdown cell acts as a mini tutorial—follow it step-by-step to configure a service client, choose a base model, and kick off a LoRA run.
4. Keep everything in order: run cells sequentially so credentials are loaded before you interact with the service.

## Notebooks

- `00_check_env.ipynb` – Verify environment, install deps.
- `01_tinker_hello_LoRA_world.ipynb` – Original Tinker LoRA hello world.
- `02_basketball_prompt_distill.ipynb` – Basketball prompt distillation example.
- `03_tinker_hello_LoRA_piglatin_wandb.ipynb` – Pig Latin LoRA fine-tune with W&B logging.

### How to run the Pig Latin + W&B demo

1. Create and activate the virtualenv.
2. Install requirements: `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
3. Start JupyterLab in the repo.
4. Run `00_check_env.ipynb`.
5. Open `03_tinker_hello_LoRA_piglatin_wandb.ipynb` and:
   - Run all cells top to bottom.
   - Make sure `USE_WANDB = True` and you’re logged into W&B.
6. Watch the run under the `tinker-hello-world` project in your W&B workspace.

## Troubleshooting tips

- **Missing API key?** Double-check `.env` and re-run `python test_env.py`.
- **Module import errors?** Re-install requirements inside the same interpreter used by Jupyter.
- **Notebook can't find `.env`?** Ensure you're launching Jupyter from the repo root so relative paths resolve correctly.

Have fun tinkering! Feel free to fork this template and adapt it for your own workshops.

Commit message:

Revise Pig Latin W&B demo instructions in README
Updated instructions for running the Pig Latin + W&B demo.

README.md, after:

# Hello, Tinker 👋

Welcome to a tiny, beginner-friendly playground for the [Tinker](https://github.com/thinkingmachines/tinker) API. This repo is meant for workshops, demos, and "Hello World" experiments—clone it whenever you need a clean starting point.

## What's inside?

- `notebooks/00_check_env.ipynb` — sanity checks for your Python/Jupyter environment and SDK versions.
- `notebooks/01_tinker_hello_LoRA_world.ipynb` — a minimal LoRA fine-tuning walkthrough that keeps all of the original demo logic intact.
- `test_env.py` — quick CLI script to confirm your `.env` file is wired up.

> **Community note:** this is an independent community project and is **not** affiliated with or endorsed by Thinking Machines Lab.

## Quickstart

1. **Clone the template**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<your-org>/Tinker-hello-world-notebooks.git
   cd Tinker-hello-world-notebooks
   ```
2. **Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended)**
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\\Scripts\\activate
   ```
3. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
4. **Configure environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Open .env and paste your Tinker API key
   ```
5. **Verify your setup**
   ```bash
   python test_env.py
   ```
   You should see `TINKER_API_KEY present: True` before launching any notebooks.

## Running the notebooks

1. Start Jupyter (Lab or Notebook):
   ```bash
   jupyter lab  # or: jupyter notebook
   ```
2. Open `notebooks/00_check_env.ipynb` and run all cells from top to bottom. This confirms your interpreter, file paths, and SDK versions.
3. Move on to `notebooks/01_tinker_hello_LoRA_world.ipynb`. The first markdown cell acts as a mini tutorial—follow it step-by-step to configure a service client, choose a base model, and kick off a LoRA run.
4. Keep everything in order: run cells sequentially so credentials are loaded before you interact with the service.

## Notebooks

- `00_check_env.ipynb` – Verify environment, install deps.
- `01_tinker_hello_LoRA_world.ipynb` – Original Tinker LoRA hello world.
- `02_basketball_prompt_distill.ipynb` – Basketball prompt distillation example.
- `03_tinker_hello_LoRA_piglatin_wandb.ipynb` – Pig Latin LoRA fine-tune with W&B logging.

## 03_tinker_hello_LoRA_piglatin_wandb.ipynb

- Fine-tunes `BASE_MODEL` on a small Pig Latin dataset using LoRA.
- Logs training metrics to Weights & Biases (W&B).
- Demonstrates a simple sampling client to test the adapter.
- Uses config variables at the top so you can easily swap models or tweak LoRA params.

## Troubleshooting tips

- **Missing API key?** Double-check `.env` and re-run `python test_env.py`.
- **Module import errors?** Re-install requirements inside the same interpreter used by Jupyter.
- **Notebook can't find `.env`?** Ensure you're launching Jupyter from the repo root so relative paths resolve correctly.

Have fun tinkering! Feel free to fork this template and adapt it for your own workshops.
